Kb troubleshoot deadline exceeded (#1748)
temporalio/documentation: kb/deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting.md

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-01T00:00:00Z
---

`DeadlineExceeded` is a Context error thrown when requests are not completed on time.

> Many requests are sent and received in a Temporal system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many requests are sent and received with and within the Temporal Platform.
```

> These requests can be made between services, between client and server, and between the entire system and a network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These requests can be made between Temporal Server services, between a Temporal Client and Server, and between the entire system and a network.
```

This extensive coverage, along with the error's brief message, makes it confusing to figure out where the error could come from.

Based on what users have seen, we can deduce that the three most common problem areas lie in downed services, faulty Workflow logic, and unusually high latencies.

Therefore, the best route for troubleshooting lies in checking on the 3 L's:

- Logs
- Logic
- Latency

If you're still unable to find the cause of your timeouts, please visit the community forum, community Slack, or file a support ticket if you are using Temporal Cloud.

:::note

Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.
If you're using Temporal Cloud, you must file a service ticket when this error occurs.

:::

<!-- TODO: move the note above or delete if not needed -->

> ### Logs

Reviewer: These could just be bold.
They don't have to be headers.

Author: I could keep moving things around. 
ex) instead of listing, then explaining, kind of blend it together

Author: ^^
With how much there is to tell, it might be better to keep the sections. I'll take a look within each support thread and figure out how to link to a specific thing—especially if we first link to the user problem and then later to the steps taken

> If a service has gone down, your history logs will be able to point to the culprit.

Reviewer: Ya, basically check service logs to make sure services are up - this includes persistence, Server services, Elasticsearch...

You can check Worker logs for Temporal Application level issues

Author: Thanks for specifying

### Logic

> If a Workflow repeatedly fails to execute, the problem could lie in the code itself.

Reviewer: First check to see if any Workflows are repeatedly failing - then check their logic

Continuously failing WFTs may cause that error ?

Author: Good note

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-08T00:00:00Z
---

All requests made to the [Temporal Cluster](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-cluster) are [gRPC requests](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#deadlines).
Sometimes, when these requests can't be completed, you'll see this particular error message: `Context: deadline exceeded`.

> `Context: deadline exceeded` is an error that occurs when requests are not completed on time.

Reviewer 2: I think you can remove this statement; it is repeated.

> Network interruptions, short timeouts, server overload, and Query errors can cause this error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Network interruptions, short timeouts, server overload, and Query errors are some of the reasons that can cause this error.
```

> The following sections will discuss the nature of this error and how to troubleshoot it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sections discuss the nature of this error and how to troubleshoot it.
```

#### Check your logs

:::note

> Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something along the lines of "For Cloud users,  check your Workflow Execution history for errors, look for latencies and errors in your Cloud metrics, and create a support ticket with Temporal with details of the error you see and any additional information you can provide." ?
@tsurdilo would this be useful?

Reviewer 3: I think just telling users to "look for latencies" is probably very specific. Maybe omit that part and we an just say if users sees this error to open a support ticket with full message

If you're using Temporal Cloud, consider filing a [service ticket](https://support.temporal.io/) when this error occurs.

:::

```
{“level”:“error”,“ts”:“2022-03-21T19:32:42.312Z”,“msg”:“unavailable error”,“service”:“frontend”,“error”:“unable to get temporal-sys-add-search-attributes-workflow workflow state: context deadline exceeded”,“logging-call-at”:“adminHandler.go:1163”,“stacktrace”:“go.temporal.io/server/common/log.
```

Service logs can show which parts of the Cluster aren't working.

> Verify that the frontend is connected by opening the Web UI in your browser.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure the Web UI is the best place to troubleshoot the Frontend Service. 
Maybe add here that you can use tctl commands to check Cluster health:
`tctl --address localhost:7233 cluster health`

and probably also include the gRPC health check for Frontend:
`./grpc-health-probe -addr=ADDRESS:PORT -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.WorkflowService` but this is a gRPC thing. See [this thread](https://community.temporal.io/t/temporal-server-health-check/1368) for some info and there are a few others on the forum for checking Frontend Service health.

Check that the following are up and running with `tctl cluster` commands:

- [History Service](/concepts/what-is-a-history-service)
- [Persistence](/clusters#persistence) database
- [Advanced Visibility](/concepts/what-is-advanced-visibility) database

> Logs can also be used to find [Query](/concepts/what-is-a-query) errors.

Reviewer 2: Frontend Service logs?

#### Check your Cluster metrics

Look for high latencies, short timeouts, and other abnormal [Cluster metrics](/references/cluster-metrics).
If the metrics come from a specific service (such as History Service), check that service's connectivity and restart if needed.

#### Check Workflow logic

Check your [Client and Worker configuration](/references/configuration) files for missing or invalid values in:

- Server names
- Network or host addresses
- Certificates
- Timeouts

## Advanced troubleshooting

If you're still getting this error, here are further things to check.

#### After enabling mTLS

Check the health of the Cluster with `tctl cluster health`.

```
tctl --address [SERVER_ADDRESS] cluster health
```

Add any missing [environment variables](/references/web-ui-environment-variables) to the configuration files, and correct any incorrect values.

> Server names and certificates must match between frontend and internode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Server names and certificates must match between Frontend and internode.
```

#### After restarting the Temporal Cluster

You might not be giving the Cluster enough time to respond and reconnect.
Restart the Server, wait, and then check all services for connectivity and further errors.

> If the error persists, review your history and server logs for more specific causes before continuing to troubleshoot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the error persists, review your Workflow Execution History and server logs for more specific causes before continuing to troubleshoot.
```

#### When executing or scheduling Workflows

One or more services may be unable to connect to the frontend.
The Workflow might be unable to complete requests within the given connection time.

Check service metrics, history logs, and connectivity between system components.

> If you're running the Cluster in a container, check that service's history or log files.

Reviewer 2: This is repeated and can be removed. You've already mentioned checking service metrics, history logs, and connectivity.

If needed, modify configuration files and run diagnostic commands specific to your environment.

Increase the timeout value so that requests can be finished before the connection terminates.

::: note

> If you increase timeouts or ConnectionAge values, consider adding a hot spotting check to prevent server overload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you increase timeouts or `ConnectionAge` values, consider checking for server overload.
```

:::

#### While using `tctl`

The Cluster may have deployed with missing or incorrect values.

> Check your environment for containers that terminated or failed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Check your environment for services that terminated or failed to start correctly.
```

Run `tctl cluster` commands to fix issues through CLI.

---

> If you were unable to resolve your issue, please visit the [community forum](https://community.temporal.io), [community Slack](https://temporal.io/slack), or file a [support ticket](https://support.temporal.io/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you were unable to resolve your issue, check for similar questions and possible solutions on [community forum](https://community.temporal.io), [community Slack](https://temporal.io/slack), or file a [support ticket](https://support.temporal.io/).
```

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-08T00:00:00Z
---

> All requests to the Temporal Cluster are gRPC requests.

Author: I was to specify the type of requests. It's important for where the error comes from, and I'll add a link to gRPC docs as well

Sometimes, when these requests can't be completed, you'll see this particular error message: `"error":"context deadline exceeded"`.
What is this error, and what does it mean?

> `Context: deadline exceeded` is an error that occurs when requests are not completed on time.

Author: Will capitalize context. The one with 'error' preceding it is meant to be the message seen

> `Context: deadline exceeded` is an error that occurs when requests are not completed on time.

Author: never mind, just chose a spelling

Network interruptions, short timeouts, server overload, and query errors can cause this error.

This error can happen across the Cluster.
To find the cause and begin troubleshooting:

#### Check your Frontend Logs

:::note

Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.
If you're using Temporal Cloud, consider file a service ticket when this error occurs.

:::

> Service logs can show which parts of the Cluster aren't working.

Author: added

Verify that connections to the Frontend Service are functional.
This includes Workers, Clients, load balancers, and other components.

Check that the following are up and running:

- History Service

> - Persistence database

Author: users can check all this

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-08T00:00:00Z
---

All requests made to the [Temporal Cluster](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-cluster) are [gRPC requests](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#deadlines).
Sometimes, when these requests can't be completed, you'll see this particular error message: `Context: deadline exceeded`.

`Context: deadline exceeded` is an error that occurs when requests are not completed on time.
Network interruptions, short timeouts, server overload, and Query errors can cause this error.

The following sections will discuss the nature of this error and how to troubleshoot it.

#### Check your logs

:::note

Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.

> If you're using Temporal Cloud, consider filing a service ticket when this error occurs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you're using Temporal Cloud, consider filing a [service ticket](https://support.temporal.io/) when this error occurs.
```

Reviewer 4: My sense is there are Cloud users who don't know how to file a ticket, so linking would be helpful for them

Author: yes please! thanks for the link!

:::

```
{“level”:“error”,“ts”:“2022-03-21T19:32:42.312Z”,“msg”:“unavailable error”,“service”:“frontend”,“error”:“unable to get temporal-sys-add-search-attributes-workflow workflow state: context deadline exceeded”,“logging-call-at”:“adminHandler.go:1163”,“stacktrace”:“go.temporal.io/server/common/log.
```

Service logs can show which parts of the Cluster aren't working.

Verify that the frontend is connected by opening the Web UI in your browser.

Check that the following are up and running with `tctl cluster` commands:

- [History Service](/concepts/what-is-a-history-service)
- [Persistence](/clusters#persistence) database
- [Advanced Visibility](/concepts/what-is-advanced-visibility) database

Logs can also be used to find [Query](/concepts/what-is-a-query) errors.

#### Check your Cluster metrics

Look for high latencies, short timeouts, and other abnormal [Cluster metrics](/references/cluster-metrics).
If the metrics come from a specific service (such as History Service), check that service's connectivity and restart if needed.

#### Check Workflow logic

> Your Workflow may be missing some information needed to make the connection.

Reviewer 4: workflow code doesn't make connections. not sure what types of logic result in deadline exceeded, maybe query handlers that have errors or are long running.

Check your code and [configuration](/references/configuration) files for missing or invalid values in:

- Server names
- Network or host addresses
- Certificates

> - Timeouts

Reviewer 4: relevant for Client and Worker config

## Advanced troubleshooting

> If you're still getting this error...

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you're still getting this error, here are further things to check.
```

https://developers.google.com/style/ellipses

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-09T00:00:00Z
---

All client-side requests made to the [Temporal Cluster](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-cluster) are [gRPC requests](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#deadlines).
Sometimes, when these frontend requests can't be completed, you'll see this particular error message: `Context: deadline exceeded`.
Network interruptions, timeouts, server overload, and Query errors are some of the causes of this error.

The following sections discuss the nature of this error and how to troubleshoot it.

#### Check Frontend Service logs

:::note

Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.

If you're using Temporal Cloud, check your Workflow History for error messages and create a [support ticket](https://support.temporal.io/) with Temporal.
Provide the full error message in your ticket.

:::

[Frontend Service](/clusters/#frontend-service) logs can show which parts of the Cluster aren't working.

> In order for the error to appear, there has to be a service pod or container up and running.
> 
> OSS users can verify that the [Frontend Service](/clusters#frontend-service) is connected and running by using `tctl`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For the error to appear, a service pod or container must be up and running.

OSS users can verify that the Frontend Service is connected and running by using `tctl`.
```
First sentence edited per https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#in-order-to.

Link in second sentence removed because it appears in the preceding sentence. (And, yes, I missed that entirely earlier. Mea culpa.)

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-09T00:00:00Z
---

> All client-side requests made to the [Temporal Cluster](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-cluster) are [gRPC requests](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#deadlines).

Reviewer 3: Would say that that they go through the temporal frontend service...then tie it with my comment (second below)

Sometimes, when these requests can't be completed, you'll see this particular error message: `Context: deadline exceeded`.

> Network interruptions, timeouts, server overload, and Query errors are some of the reasons that can cause this error.

Reviewer 3: Think this is missing "cluster misconfiguration"

The following sections discuss the nature of this error and how to troubleshoot it.

#### Check Frontend Service logs

:::note

Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.

If you're using Temporal Cloud, check your Workflow History for error messages and create a [support ticket](https://support.temporal.io/) with Temporal.
Provide the full error message in your ticket.

:::

> [Frontend Service](/clusters/#frontend-service) logs can show which parts of the Cluster aren't working.

Reviewer 3: I would maybe say there that in order for this error to appear, there is a frontend service pod/container up and running, meaning that if frontend service was down user would not get this client error (deadline exceeded) but a different error for example:

tctl cl h
Error: Unable to get "temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.WorkflowService" health check status.
Error Details: rpc error: code = Unavailable desc = connection error: desc = "transport: Error while dialing dial tcp 127.0.0.1:7233: connect: connection refused"

> Verify that the Frontend Service is connected by opening the Web UI in your browser.

Reviewer 3: I think better is to use tctl, specifically command:

tctl cl h

and see if it returns "Serving" as response. 

Don't think we want to tell users that web ui is the way to check if their cluster is up or not. Better use health checks.

Alternatively, OSS users can check that Frontend and other service are running with `tctl`.

```

tctl --address frontendAddress:frontendPort cluster health

```

> Use `grpc-health-probe` to check the [Frontend Service](/clusters#frontend-service), [Matching Service](/clusters#matching-service), and [History Service](/clusters#history-service).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Use `grpc-health-probe` to check the Frontend Service, [Matching Service](/clusters#matching-service), and [History Service](/clusters#history-service).
```
I removed the link because this is the second mention, although I'm not opposed to linking this instance to maintain the regularity of the series.

```

./grpc-health-probe -addr=frontendAddress:frontendPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.WorkflowService

./grpc-health-probe -addr=matchingAddress:matchingPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.MatchingService

./grpc-health-probe -addr=historyAddress:historyPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.HistoryService

```

> Logs can also be used to find Client [Query](/workflows#queries) requests that failed with this error.

Reviewer 5: To what error does "this error" refer?

#### Check your Cluster metrics

> Cluster metrics can be used to detect issues (such as 'resource exhausted') that implact Cluster health.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Cluster metrics can be used to detect issues (such as `resource exhausted`) that impact Cluster health.
```
I can't keep "implact" here, but I'm gonna find a way to work it into conversations every chance I get. (Definition: A mashup of "impact" and "splat.")

> `Resource exhausted` errors can cause your client requests to fail, which prompts the `Deadline exceeded` error.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
A `resource exhausted` error can cause your client request to fail, which prompts the `deadline exceeded` error.
```

> Use the query below to check for errors in `RpsLimit`, `ConcurrentLimit` and `SystemOverloaded` on your metrics dashboard.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Use the following query to check for errors in `RpsLimit`, `ConcurrentLimit` and `SystemOverloaded` on your metrics dashboard.
```

Per https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#below, second meaning.

```

sum(rate(service_errors_resource_exhausted{}[1m])) by (resource_exhausted_cause)

```

Look for high latencies, short timeouts, and other abnormal [Cluster metrics](/references/cluster-metrics).
If the metrics come from a specific service (such as History Service), check the service's health and performance.

#### Check Workflow logic

> Check your [Client and Worker configuration](/references/configuration) files for missing or invalid target values, such as:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Check your [Client and Worker configuration](/references/configuration) files for missing or invalid target values, such as the following:
```
Per https://developers.google.com/style/colons#introductory-phrase-preceding-colon.

- Server names
- Network or host addresses
- Certificates

Invalid targets also cause `connection refused` errors alongside `deadline exceeded`.
Check that the Client connects after updating your files.

## Advanced troubleshooting

> In addition to the steps listed above, check the areas mentioned in each scenario below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the steps listed in the previous sections, check the areas mentioned in each of the following scenarios.
```

#### After enabling mTLS

Check the health of the Cluster with `tctl cluster health`.

```
tctl --address [SERVER_ADDRESS] cluster health
```

Add any missing [environment variables](/references/web-ui-environment-variables) to the configuration files, and correct any incorrect values.
Server names and certificates must match between Frontend and internode.

#### After restarting the Temporal Cluster

You might not be giving the Cluster enough time to respond and reconnect.
Restart the Server, wait, and then check all services for connectivity and further errors.

If the error persists, review your Workflow Execution History and server logs for more specific causes before continuing to troubleshoot.

#### When executing or scheduling Workflows

> One or more services may be unable to connect to the [Frontend Service](/clusters#frontend-service).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
One or more services might be unable to connect to the [Frontend Service](/clusters#frontend-service).
```

The Workflow might be unable to complete requests within the given connection time.

Increase the value of `frontend.keepAliveMaxConnectionAge` so that requests can be finished before the connection terminates.

:::note

> If you increase `frontend.keepAliveMaxConnectionAge` values, consider monitoring your server performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you increase `frontend.keepAliveMaxConnectionAge` values, consider monitoring your server performance for load.
```

:::

---

> If you were unable to resolve your issue, check for similar questions and possible solutions on [community forum](https://community.temporal.io), [community Slack](https://temporal.io/slack), or file a [support ticket](https://support.temporal.io/).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you were unable to resolve your issue, check for similar questions and possible solutions on our [community forum](https://community.temporal.io) or [community Slack](https://temporal.io/slack), or file a [support ticket](https://support.temporal.io/).
```

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-09T00:00:00Z
---

All client-side requests made to the [Temporal Cluster](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-cluster) are [gRPC requests](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#deadlines).
Sometimes, when these frontend requests can't be completed, you'll see this particular error message: `Context: deadline exceeded`.
Network interruptions, timeouts, server overload, and Query errors are some of the causes of this error.

The following sections discuss the nature of this error and how to troubleshoot it.

<!-- truncate -->

#### Check Frontend Service logs

:::note

Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.

> If you're using Temporal Cloud, check your Workflow History for error messages and create a [support ticket](https://support.temporal.io/) with Temporal.

Reviewer 6: What does the workflow history have to do with deadline exceeded?

Reviewer 3: if your client query calls for example are failing with deadline exceeded
you could check wf history to see if you have a local activity thats extending workflow task that could be a good indication of why query might be failing..one thing i know at least :)

Reviewer 3: another situation could be a workflow thats stuck
for example due to non-deterministic error
in that case wht workflow task keeps replaying and the query cannot complete, think history can help there too

Reviewer 6: This should be clarified in the doc.

The only correlation I know of between workflow history and context deadline exceeded would be on query time outs and even then it's not guaranteed.

OSS users can verify that the Frontend Service is connected and running by using `tctl`.

```

tctl --address frontendAddress:frontendPort cluster health

```

Use `grpc-health-probe` to check the Frontend Service, [Matching Service](/clusters#matching-service), and [History Service](/clusters#history-service).

```

./grpc-health-probe -addr=frontendAddress:frontendPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.WorkflowService

./grpc-health-probe -addr=matchingAddress:matchingPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.MatchingService

./grpc-health-probe -addr=historyAddress:historyPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.HistoryService

```

Logs can also be used to find failed Client [Query](/workflows#queries) requests.

#### Check your Cluster metrics

Cluster metrics can be used to detect issues (such as `resource exhausted`) that impact Cluster health.
A `resource exhausted` error can cause your client request to fail, which prompts the `deadline exceeded` error.

Use the following query to check for errors in `RpsLimit`, `ConcurrentLimit` and `SystemOverloaded` on your metrics dashboard.

```

> sum(rate(service_errors_resource_exhausted{}[1m])) by (resource_exhausted_cause)

Reviewer 6: Probably worth explaining what this query language and that this requires prometheus metrics output.

```

Look for high latencies, short timeouts, and other abnormal [Cluster metrics](/references/cluster-metrics).
If the metrics come from a specific service (such as History Service), check the service's health and performance.

#### Check Workflow logic

Check your [Client and Worker configuration](/references/configuration) files for missing or invalid target values, such as the following:

- Server names
- Network or host addresses
- Certificates

Invalid targets also cause `connection refused` errors alongside `deadline exceeded`.
Check that the Client connects after updating your files.

## Advanced troubleshooting

In addition to the steps listed in the previous sections, check the areas mentioned in each of the following scenarios.

#### After enabling mTLS

Check the health of the Cluster with `tctl cluster health`.

```

> tctl --address [SERVER_ADDRESS] cluster health

Reviewer 6: In case of mtls client cert and key should be provided

```

> Add any missing [environment variables](/references/web-ui-environment-variables) to the configuration files, and correct any incorrect values.

Reviewer 6: This is confusing..

It talks about web 2 different things UI env vars and configuration files.
What does web UI env vars have to do with this?

Reviewer 3: think if you see this error in web ui, my guess. 
possibly wrong configuration or something.

Reviewer 6: Requires clarification, I'm confused reading this.

Network interruptions, timeouts, server overload, and Query errors are some of the reasons that can cause this error.

The following sections discuss the nature of this error and how to troubleshoot it.

#### Check frontend service logs

:::note

Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.

If you're using Temporal Cloud, check your Workflow History for errors and create a [support ticket](https://support.temporal.io/) with Temporal.
Provide the full error message in your ticket.

:::

```
{“level”:“error”,“ts”:“2022-03-21T19:32:42.312Z”,“msg”:“unavailable error”,“service”:“frontend”,“error”:“unable to get temporal-sys-add-search-attributes-workflow workflow state: context deadline exceeded”,“logging-call-at”:“adminHandler.go:1163”,“stacktrace”:“go.temporal.io/server/common/log.
```

Frontend service logs can show which parts of the Cluster aren't working.

Verify that the Frontend Service is connected by opening the Web UI in your browser.

Alternatively, OSS users can check that Frontend and other service are running with

```
tctl cluster health
```

and

```

> alsovia grpcurl

Reviewer 3: "alsovia" was a typo i made "also via" :) sry 
its just "grpcurl"

> grpc-health-probe

Reviewer 3: for this just to add, if you wanted to show the commands here they are:

Frontend service: 
./grpc-health-probe -addr=frontendAddress:frontendPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.WorkflowService
or
tctl --address frontendAddress:frontendPort  cluster health

Matching Service:
./grpc-health-probe -addr=matchingAddress:matchingPort  -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.MatchingService

History Service:
./grpc-health-probe -addr=historyAddress:historyPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.HistoryService

```

- [History Service](/clusters#history-service)
- [Persistence](/clusters#persistence) database
- [Advanced Visibility](/visibility#advanced-visibility) database

Logs can also be used to find Client [Query](/workflows#queries) requests that failed with this error.

#### Check your Cluster metrics

> Cluster metrics can be used to detect issues (such as 'resource exhausted') that implact cluster health.

Reviewer 3: If we mention this I think we can also give user the query they can use for resource exhausted:

sum(rate(service_errors_resource_exhausted{}[1m])) by (resource_exhausted_cause)

and check for causes: RpsLimit, ConcurrentLimit, and SystemOverloaded

> This can cause your client to fail and send this error.

Reviewer 3: what error? deadline exceeded or resource exhausted? maybe if you think is ok to specify that this could cause the deadline exceeded error in client code or tctl commands

#### Check Workflow logic

Check your [Client and Worker configuration](/references/configuration) files for missing or invalid target values, such as:

- Server names
- Network or host addresses
- Certificates

Invalid targets also cause `connection refused` errors alongside `deadline exceeded`.
Check that the Client connects after updating your files.

## Advanced troubleshooting

If you're still getting this error, here are further things to check.

#### After enabling mTLS

Check the health of the Cluster with `tctl cluster health`.

```
tctl --address [SERVER_ADDRESS] cluster health
```

Add any missing [environment variables](/references/web-ui-environment-variables) to the configuration files, and correct any incorrect values.
Server names and certificates must match between Frontend and internode.

#### After restarting the Temporal Cluster

You might not be giving the Cluster enough time to respond and reconnect.
Restart the Server, wait, and then check all services for connectivity and further errors.

If the error persists, review your Workflow Execution History and server logs for more specific causes before continuing to troubleshoot.

> #### When executing or scheduling Workflows

Reviewer 3: Sry dont understand this section. which timeout should be increased? 

By ConnectionAge do you mean dynamic config 
frontend.keepAliveMaxConnectionAge

trying to understand

One or more services may be unable to connect to the [Frontend Service](/clusters#frontend-service).
The Workflow might be unable to complete requests within the given connection time.

Increase the timeout value so that requests can be finished before the connection terminates.

::: note

If you increase timeouts or `ConnectionAge` values, consider checking for server overload.

:::

#### While using `tctl`

The Cluster may have deployed with missing or incorrect values.

Check your environment for services that terminated or failed to start correctly.

> Run `tctl cluster` commands to fix issues through CLI.

Reviewer 3: i think you mean 

tctl cluster health

not sure how it would fix any issues tho, it would just tell you if the server frontend service is up and can be accessed

Provide the full error message in your ticket.

:::

```
{“level”:“error”,“ts”:“2022-03-21T19:32:42.312Z”,“msg”:“unavailable error”,“service”:“frontend”,“error”:“unable to get temporal-sys-add-search-attributes-workflow workflow state: context deadline exceeded”,“logging-call-at”:“adminHandler.go:1163”,“stacktrace”:“go.temporal.io/server/common/log.
```

Frontend service logs can show which parts of the Cluster aren't working.

Verify that the Frontend Service is connected by opening the Web UI in your browser.

Alternatively, OSS users can check that Frontend and other service are running with

```

tctl --address frontendAddress:frontendPort cluster health

```

and

```

./grpc-health-probe -addr=frontendAddress:frontendPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.WorkflowService

./grpc-health-probe -addr=matchingAddress:matchingPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.MatchingService

./grpc-health-probe -addr=historyAddress:historyPort -service=temporal.api.workflowservice.v1.HistoryService

```

- [History Service](/clusters#history-service)
- [Persistence](/clusters#persistence) database

> - [Advanced Visibility](/visibility#advanced-visibility) database

Author: List was removed

## Advanced troubleshooting

If you're still getting this error, here are further things to check.

#### After enabling mTLS

Check the health of the Cluster with `tctl cluster health`.

```
tctl --address [SERVER_ADDRESS] cluster health
```

Add any missing [environment variables](/references/web-ui-environment-variables) to the configuration files, and correct any incorrect values.
Server names and certificates must match between Frontend and internode.

#### After restarting the Temporal Cluster

You might not be giving the Cluster enough time to respond and reconnect.
Restart the Server, wait, and then check all services for connectivity and further errors.

If the error persists, review your Workflow Execution History and server logs for more specific causes before continuing to troubleshoot.

#### When executing or scheduling Workflows

One or more services may be unable to connect to the [Frontend Service](/clusters#frontend-service).
The Workflow might be unable to complete requests within the given connection time.

Increase the value of `frontend.keepAliveMaxConnectionAge` so that requests can be finished before the connection terminates.

::: note

> If you increase `frontend.keepAliveMaxConnectionAge` values, consider checking for server overload.

Reviewer 3: Think users will ask "how to check for server overload" here. Wdyt?

Author: Just changed to "monitor server performance."

:::

#### While using `tctl`

> The Cluster may have deployed with missing or incorrect values.

Reviewer 3: I don't really understand this sentence and the sentence below. Can you explain what are you trying to relate to user here so can understand and we can see what info can add to this section. Thanks.

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-01T00:00:00Z
---

`DeadlineExceeded` is a Context error that originates in `gRPC`.
This error occurs when a request hasn't been replied to before its timeout.

> 

Reviewer: ```
context: deadline exceeded
```

Maybe grab a real instance of this?

If you spin up docker compose and kill elasticsearch you will get it I am pretty sure.

Author: Aarohi and I are grabbing some examples across the board

`DeadlineExceeded` often occurs alongside other errors.
Together, the errors can indicate several different conditions, such as:

- Connection issues
- Timeouts
- Server overload
- Query handling issues

<!-- Temporal is aware that this error is vague, especially with how many cases it covers.
Should any problems persist after troubleshooting below, contact Temporal. -->

We've highlighted some users' encounters below, along with the steps they took to resolve their issues.

> If you're still unable to find the cause of your timeouts, please contact Temporal with a minimal reproduction of your problem.

Reviewer: > ... visit the community forum, community Slack, or file a support ticket if you are using Temporal Cloud.

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-01T00:00:00Z
---

> `DeadlineExceeded` is a [gRPC Context error](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#deadlines) thrown when requests are not completed on time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`DeadlineExceeded` is a [gRPC error](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#deadlines) thrown when requests are not completed on time.
```

"context" is a go-specific concept (and appears in most deadline exceeded errors because our services are written in go)

Reviewer: @DJSanti This is the differentiation I was trying to make as well. I think we want to capture @lorensr 's point about this.

Author: Gotcha. Will correct

Many requests are sent and received with and within the Temporal Platform.
These requests can be made between Temporal Server services, between a Temporal Client and Server, and between the entire system and a network.
This extensive coverage, along with the error's brief message, makes it confusing to figure out where the error could come from.

Based on what users have seen, we can deduce that the three most common problem areas lie in downed services, faulty Workflow logic, and unusually high latencies.

Therefore, the best route for troubleshooting is to check the 3 L's of system functionality.

- Logs
- Logic
- Latency

If you're still unable to find the cause of your timeouts, please visit the community forum, community Slack, or file a support ticket if you are using Temporal Cloud.

:::note

Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.
If you're using Temporal Cloud, consider file a service ticket when this error occurs.

> :::

Author: placing in intro before first troubleshooting steps

<!-- TODO: move the note above or delete if not needed -->

### Logs

If a service has gone down, your history logs might be able to point to the culprit.

Queries that continually return errors can also be traced back in the logs.

[One user](https://community.temporal.io/t/context-deadline-exceeded-when-trying-to-start-workflow-v1-7-1/4249) received the error while trying to start their Workflow.
The Temporal Worker failed to connect to the frontend service.

> Looking deeper into the problem revealed that HTTP requests were being fulfilled, but weren't registered at any point in their progress on Temporal Web.

Author: Will correct. See overhaul commits.

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-01T00:00:00Z
---

`DeadlineExceeded` is a Context error thrown when requests are not completed on time.

Many requests are sent and received in a Temporal system.
These requests can be made between services, between client and server, and between the entire system and a network.
This extensive coverage, along with the error's brief message, makes it confusing to figure out where the error could come from.

Based on what users have seen, we can deduce that the three most common problem areas lie in downed services, faulty Workflow logic, and unusually high latencies.

Therefore, the best route for troubleshooting lies in checking on the 3 L's:

- Logs
- Logic
- Latency

If you're still unable to find the cause of your timeouts, please visit the community forum, community Slack, or file a support ticket if you are using Temporal Cloud.

:::note

Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.

> If you're using Temporal Cloud, you must file a service ticket when this error occurs.

Reviewer: must -> consider 
?

Author: ahh

---
slug: deadline-exceeded-troubleshooting
title: DeadlineExceeded error troubleshooting
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-11-08T00:00:00Z
---

> All requests made to the [Temporal Cluster](/concepts/what-is-a-temporal-cluster) are [gRPC requests](https://grpc.io/docs/what-is-grpc/core-concepts/#deadlines).

Reviewer 3: Maybe could clarify where these requests originate from, namely users client code and their workers.
Also if we mention this we could say that all these calls are described via apis: https://github.com/temporalio/api/tree/master/temporal/api

Sometimes, when these requests can't be completed, you'll see this particular error message: `Context: deadline exceeded`.

> Network interruptions, short timeouts, server overload, and Query errors are some of the reasons that can cause this error.

Reviewer 3: would remove "short" from short timeouts if possible

The following sections discuss the nature of this error and how to troubleshoot it.

> 

Reviewer 5: I think that we still need the truncation instruction so that the KB landing page doesn't get overly long.

> #### Check your logs

Reviewer 3: Would change to "Check frontend service logs"

:::note

Cloud users cannot access some of the logs needed to diagnose the source of the error.

> If you're using Temporal Cloud, check your Workflow History for errors, look for latencies and errors in your Cloud metrics, and create a [support ticket](https://support.temporal.io/) with Temporal providing these details.

Reviewer 3: workflow history would not contain errors. best to omit that part imo. just say to open support ticket and dont think customers have full logs available that I am aware of yet (maybe they do and im wrong tho so worth checking on this maybe)

:::

```
{“level”:“error”,“ts”:“2022-03-21T19:32:42.312Z”,“msg”:“unavailable error”,“service”:“frontend”,“error”:“unable to get temporal-sys-add-search-attributes-workflow workflow state: context deadline exceeded”,“logging-call-at”:“adminHandler.go:1163”,“stacktrace”:“go.temporal.io/server/common/log.
```

> Service logs can show which parts of the Cluster aren't working.

Reviewer 3: i think specifically "frontend service logs"

> Verify that the Frontend Service is connected by opening the Web UI in your browser.

Reviewer 3: besides web ui user could also do this via tctl:

tctl cl h

and alsovia grpcurl and/or grpc-health-probe for OSS users

> Check that the following are up and running with `tctl cluster` commands:

Reviewer 3: if you mean here 
tctl cl h 

this only checks the frontend service, for matching/history you need to use grpculr or grpc-health-probe
for cloud users they can only check frontend service

- [History Service](/clusters#history-service)
- [Persistence](/clusters#persistence) database

> - [Advanced Visibility](/visibility#advanced-visibility) database

Reviewer 3: i think temporal cluster is designed to still work if advanced vis fails, so not sure it should be in this list

Author: The error can show up from advanced vis.

Author: Gonna keep this for now

> Logs can also be used to find [Query](/workflows#queries) errors.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure what this sentence means, what query errors? Do you mean client query requests that fail with the deadline exceeded error?

#### Check your Cluster metrics

Look for high latencies, short timeouts, and other abnormal [Cluster metrics](/references/cluster-metrics).

> If the metrics come from a specific service (such as History Service), check that service's connectivity and restart if needed.

Reviewer 3: im not sure what "check service connectivity and restart if needed", what do we need to restart here?
would maybe just mention that server metrics can be useful to detect issues such as resource exhausted which could potential lead to cluster not being health in which case your client calls could fail with deadline exceeded errors

#### Check Workflow logic

Check your [Client and Worker configuration](/references/configuration) files for missing or invalid values in:

> - Server names

Reviewer 3: i dont think deadline exceeded would happen in case client / worker is connecting to an invalid target. in this case would probably get connection refused errors

same for network or host address 

for timeouts in this list, im not sure how to check missing timeouts honestly so not sure what to check for or change
